It kept me going, you know. Regardless if I like to
do what I'm doing, I just did it. Because that was my
job. Yeah, it was my job. Well, let's talk about
this occupation duty as far as it's concerned.
Here you are, first lieutenant in charge of a
hundred thousand white Russians in Austria in
three different camps. How were part of your
functions and duties not only to take care of those
people as far as health, clothing, et cetera, but
also ordering food? And tell me about your staff.
Yeah, well, we had the artillery battalion staff.
See, I was the battalion headquarters commander.
And of course, at my disposal, I had the whole staff
to work with. headquarter staff. So I had enough
help. I had plenty of help. Ordering the food, no
problem. The staff did it. And I supervised the
staff. Okay, now you said that these people were
really rather pathetic. Their human condition
was pathetic. What did they think of the
Americans? Oh, they liked the Americans. They
did. These were people like me and you. You know,
they They respected the Americans. They had great
respect. I'd walk into these DP camps, and they
were very, not because of the military, but
because of them being American. And I didn't
really have time to communicate with a lot of them,
talk to them, or visit with them, because we were
too damn busy. Like you say, getting medicine,
food, clothing, getting them broken down into
families, and getting them all together. and make
sure the boxcars were available and make sure
transportation was on time and stuff like this.
And so I didn't really have time to, as much as I
wanted to, was to get out and visit with them and see
where they're from and what kind of work they did
or, you know, just try to find something out about
them. Just didn't have the time. Or probably very
few of them spoke English anyway. No, they didn't
speak English at all. Only the girls spoke
English. Oh, really? Yeah, the girls we'd run
across, you know, in camp. I'm talking about 19,
20, 21-year-old girls. And there were plenty of
them. There weren't many men. Most of them were
women. Most of these were women? Women, yeah. Of
course the men were... Dead. Dead, yeah. And so...
And kids, of course. They had kids while they were
there. They intermarried and developed
families. They'd been there five, six years.
Sure. And seven years. And so we had to get them all
processed and get them out of there. Now, how did
you go about processing them? You got their name
and where they were supposedly from and their
citizenship and just basic paperwork on them?
Well, we sent them to Linz, Austria. And Linz would
We'd put them in, actually, we'd put them on trucks
and send them in to Lynn's, and Lynn's division
headquarters there would put them in the boxcars
and get them on the trains and send them back. So we
had a certain procedure we followed. And were the
camps like dormitories with barbed wire around?
Oh yeah, barbed wire. Actually, they were the
regular labor camps. But the Germans, we just went
in there and cleaned them up. When I got there, it
was all set up. They had cleaned up the camps and
modernized them and had medical facilities
available and everything. Started feeding these
people. Oh, yeah. See, when I got there, they'd
already been set up and ready to go. So they just
took over the same slave labor camps that the
people were already in. And what kind of work were
they doing? Agricultural? Agriculture work,
road work, just whatever. During the day and night
they put them back in the camps. Up in the
mountains. Cumberland Mountains they called it.
Well actually part of the Alps. They called them
the Cumberland area. Now, did any of them try to,
realizing what their fate would be in the Soviet
Union, did any of them try to escape? Oh, yeah, that
was our problem. That's what we used all the men
for, was to guard the camps. Yeah, they tried. I
don't blame them. I really don't blame them. Were
they ever successful? Some of them got away, and of
course we'd have to go try to find them. Some of them
we brought back, and some of them we just couldn't
find. Oh, yeah. We couldn't understand why we were
sending them back. Just couldn't understand it.
Yeah, and this is a big dilemma. It is. And of
course, like I said, my A&M training, you know,
it's a job, and we had to do it. Had to go through it.
But we had a treaty with the Soviets. Yeah, we had a
treaty. We knew that. But we couldn't understand
the treaty. Why did Roosevelt get us into this
situation? Or Eisenhower?
The reason behind this is so we could have our
prisoner wars or anybody that the Russians
captured back. That was the idea. So it was
supposed to be a trade-off. Of course there were a
lot more Russians on our side than there were
Americans on their side. But there were some
Americans and they wanted those back. But they
wanted the white Russians back. And the
Ukrainians. Ukrainians and the Slovaks and the
Polaks and anything they could. You know, oh yeah.
Romanians, we found a battalion of Romanian SS
troopers in a camp. Yeah, they were just living.
They didn't care. The war was over. They were just,
they stacked their arms and they made camp. And so
they were a whole battalion of them. So I went back
and told the colonel, I said, there's a whole
battalion of SS troopers up there. Where, where,
where? I said, up there in the mountains. So we went
up there and I turned over the colonel. I don't know
what the hell he did with them. They finally sent
them to PW camp because they were SS troopers. But
they weren't bothering anybody. They were just
sitting there living. They knew the war was over.
So they were smart. In fact, you couldn't find any
arms. They had taken them and stacked them and put
them in a in a storeroom and locked them up so nobody
had arms. So when the colonel went up there with the
MPs,
I don't know, they just joined them, you know, and
next thing I knew they'd moved them all out to
Williams, Austria, to P.W. Cage. It was funny.
Now did you ever come in contact with the Russian
troops? Only in Czechoslovakia. Now you were with
the Eighth Armored, and this is the one that went
into Czechoslovakia but didn't liberate Prague,
is that right? That's right. And you stood on the
outskirts, or can you describe that situation? We
went to Pilsen and stopped. We stopped at Pilsen.
See, first we went to the Elbe River, and then they
stopped us at Elbe and sent us into the Harts
Mountain. And we fought there the Hitler-Jugend.
And we tried to find that underground railroad
they were supposed to have, but we never did find
it. And then the war was over. So then they sent us to
Czechoslovakia. In the meantime, Patton had gone
into Czechoslovakia and liberated them and gone
up towards Prague. And Eisenhower stopped him,
told him not to go into Prague. That was Russia. He
said, well, hell, I'm going to take Prague. He
said, no. So he pulled him back, and they had a line
drawn between Pilsen and Prague, and that was it.
And where we'd see the Russians was, they'd come
into Pilsen to buy, and they were tourists.
Because we couldn't go into Prague. They wouldn't
let us go over there, but the Russians are. And a lot
of them came in with knapsacks, five years of pay.
Never got paid till the war was over, and they had
five years of money in their knapsack. So they were
buying everything. Mickey Mouse watches, $100,
$200 a piece. And you could buy them for $2.50 in the
country. But they would buy cigarettes, $100 a
carton. Really? Oh, they were giving money away.
And the G.I.s would just sell them a Jeep. And then
report it stolen, and when they get to the
checkpoint, the American MPs would confiscate
the jeep and send the Russians on back. Oh, yeah.
They had money, five years of pay. My goodness. And
the Czechoslovakians did not want them in there.
No. No. Hated them. Didn't want them. And so then we
were ordered out of there. It was July, early July,
somewhere. First of all. Early July, yeah. Yeah,
we were ordered out of there. And the Czechs cried.
Didn't want us to leave. We were good to them. We
brought food in. We brought medicine in. And we
shared it. We stayed in the homes. Oh, did you? Oh,
yeah. We lived in the homes. It's like you move in
here with me. Really? Yeah. That's where we lived.
We lived in the homes. What did they think of that?
They loved it. We loved it. Yeah, we were living in
homes instead of in tents on the ground. They
cooked meals for us. Oh, they cooked meals for you?
Oh, yeah, they cooked meals for us. But we had our
own mess tent. And would you buy the meals? Oh, we'd
give them money. We'd bring them food. They
couldn't get beer. Pilsen, Czechoslovakia had
the biggest brewer in Europe, and they couldn't
get the beer. Why was that? They wouldn't give the
civilians any alcohol. But we could get the beer.
So we'd get the beer we wanted, and then... give it
to our Czechoslovakia friends. In fact, we'd
throw parties for them. Let them throw the party,
and we'd furnish the food. And we'd do all the
Slavic dances. Oh, they loved us. They loved us.
When I left, they brought flowers out to me. People
I lived with named Trojan cried, gave me a vase full
of flowers. I still got the vase. They cried. They
loved it. They loved us. And I used to correspond
with them when I got back to the States. And
finally, a letter got out that says, please don't
write us. No kidding? That's right. The Russians
wrote it. That was after 48? Right. Oh, yeah. The
Russians were really giving them hell. So if they
were communicating with Americans, they were
Russians. I don't know what they did to them.
People I lived with at Trojan's had a baker shop
downstairs, and we lived upstairs. It was fun, I
tell you. I had fresh pastry and rolls and bread.
That must have been welcoming after being on the
road. Oh, it really was. It really was.
You say they hated the Russians. They really did.
What were your opinions? Did you have any, besides
just seeing the Russians, What were your
impressions? Do you remember other Russians?
Well, I never did really run across any of them
except I'd see them in Pilsen. I stayed clear of
them. You know, I knew what they were and so I
stayed, I didn't try to get involved with any, talk
with them, drink with them. I just... Did many men
do that? Well, yeah, the men did. They'd just buy
them drinks and stuff. I don't think- So their
relations were pretty good? Pretty good, yeah.
They were good in Pillson. We didn't have any
trouble with them at all. I'd go to the clubs, and
the Russians would be there with the men,
drinking, socializing. So it was good. No problem
at all. But I can't recall any
vis-a-vis with the Russians. What's that?
You know, I was wondering that they would put you in
charge of an occupation camp or a displaced person
camp with your Greek background. Do you think that
had anything to do with it? I mean, the fact that you
were a European background? European
background? Yeah. I don't believe that. Or was it
just because of you? Just because of my job being
the headquartered commandant. I was
headquartered commandant of the battalion, and
that was my job. Okay. Do you want to move on now to,
would you have to go now? I'm going to have to go.
Yeah, I need to go to the office. Okay, fine. Okay,
then we can talk tomorrow morning. We can start on
when you are released from active duty, or we can
finish up anything else you want to talk about on
active duty. Tomorrow? Tomorrow morning. Yeah.
Okay. Yeah, let's do that tomorrow. You want to
come back tonight?
All right. This is a second interview with General
Mike P. Kokonos, and today is June 2, 1981. Last
time we were talking, and I think pretty much
finished up your active wartime career. I was
wondering if you had thought of anything else that
you might want to mention before we move on to your
reserve career. I can't recall of anything that I
think of something later. Okay, fine. Then let's
go to your reserve. Period. And what rank were you
when you left? When did you get out? When were you
discharged? And what rank? From the reserve? No,
from the active duty. I was discharged as a captain
in 1946. Okay. July of 1946, I was discharged as a
captain at Fort Sam Houston. Okay, so they sent you
back there. Right. All right. Had you given any
thought as a captain? Had you given any thought at
all to stay in the military and make it a career?
None at all. I had not thought about it. I wanted to
get home and try to
pick up where I left off from school and get back
into medical school. And that was my main
objective was to try to get back into medical
school. Did you think at that time that you would
ever have the possibility of staying in the
reserves and becoming general? No, did not. Never
entertained the idea of it. And I
liked the Army. I thought it was good. But I thought
that at the time that I served well and felt good
about it, and so I was just going to come home and
become a good civilian and go to medical school.
OK. Now, in 1947, you organized the 143rd Reserve
National Guard. Were you authorized to do that?
Tell me about that. How did you create that, and who
else was involved? Could you tell me that story?
Yes, I was sitting at home one afternoon on Hazel
Street, and Harold Simmons, who's a first
sergeant in the regular army, and he is since now
deceased, came to me and he said, Mike, we're
trying to organize a National Guard company here
in Beaumont. Are you interested in being part of
it? I told him I really wasn't. I just didn't feel
that, you know, I was ready. I'd just come out of the
Army and I just didn't feel like participating in
the National Guard. I really didn't know too much
about the Guard. I'd heard the reserves were All I
knew was reserves, but the guard, as I found out,
was state troops and commanded by the governor.
Anyway, he persuaded me to organize an infantry
company, H Company, of the 143rd, which was a heavy
weapons company, machine guns, mortars, and
rockets. And so we organized at the downtown YMCA.
It was in the gym, and it was 12 of us. Twelve of us got
it started, and some of the men were Harold
Simmons, of course, Clark Phippen,
P-H-I-P-P-E-N, and Lee Quisenberry, who
incidentally, Lee came to me as a carpal at that
time and stayed with me during my whole career and
was my sergeant major wherever I went. I took him
with me, and he has died about a year ago. So we lost
Lee with a heart attack. But Harold Summons, and we
had the former mayor of Beaumont, Lowry, that was
in there. But anyway, we got organized. And we had
to do it all ourselves. I mean. What about the
politics of this? Well, at the time, I didn't know
anything about the politics. Didn't realize that
the National Guard had politics in it. Probably
wouldn't have gotten involved if I'd known it. I
really didn't know too much about the Guard. We
were never told. I mean, well, I never knew
anything about the Guard or the Reserve because I
was always in. Activity. Yeah, activity or in
school and never concerned myself with it. But I
remember my older brother, Janelle, was in the
CMTC,
but they called it the Guard then. He went to a guard
camp one year when I remember as a kid. CMTC. A
civilian military training corps. I take it back.
He didn't get in the CMTC. He got into the National
Guard. It was C Company, the Guard, here in
Beaumont. And so he went to camp. And he went to camp
in somebody else's place and used their name. So
that's the only thing I remember about the Guard.
We organized the H Company. And I went to the city
and asked them to help us secure a place to train. So
they said they would let us use the fairgrounds.
And we went to the fairgrounds, and we took over a
building. And then the guard bureau, the state
guard bureau, gave us some money to put in some
wooden offices and stuff. So that's where we got
started. So you got money from the state bureau in
Austin? Austin. They helped us to build the armor.
to put our weapons, our guns in. Where'd you get the
guns? They, Texas, the National Guard sent them to
us. They were carbines and machine guns and also
Recarless rifles. And, but we got started. First
thing you know, we had a full complement. Really?
Yes. How many men then? We had about 110 men. And
that's what they, that was the, Guard limit.
Infantry Company is much larger on active duty,
but they allowed us up to 110, and we had 110. And in
fact, one of my men, who lives in College Station
right now, retired from the Army after I helped him
get into West Point through the Guard, Charlie
Zip. He was standing in ranks one day, and a message
came down from Guard Bureau, says, anybody wants
to go to West Point in your unit, just let us know. So
I asked Charlie Zipper, would he be interested in
going to the military academy? He said, never
heard of it. Didn't know anything about it. Well,
after discussing it with his mother, he come back
and says, yes, I'd like to give it a try. And through
competitive tests, he was selected, made a career
in the Army. And now he's retired. I think he
retired as a colonel. He lives in Bryan. And of
course, He, every time he sees me, he just always
thanks me for helping him. And Terry, I get this all
the time now. I see young kids. Oh, it really is. I
see young men today, and they come up to me, and
they'll say, General, don't you remember when I
was in your unit in the Guard? And now here he is, a
doctor. Giglio lives around the corner. He's just
one, for example. He's a doctor. He was in my unit.
He says, you helped me out. He says, you really did,
you know. But anyway, we went on. The guard company
was organized. Now, you didn't want to do it. Here
we are in 1947. The nation's army is demobilizing.
We have 12 million men in the armed forces in 1945
and 1947. We have a million and a half. So
everybody's leaving the service. Yet you people
decide to set up a military base station. Now, why
is that? I guess we're deep, deep rooted in
protecting our country. We felt that we, after we,
Sergeant Simmons and I, we talked about it and
that's what convinced me that we needed to have
some kind of militia or reserve. We knew everybody
was demobilizing and what would the army be?
Probably nothing, so We needed some kind of
reserve in case something did happen
immediately, and that motivated me to take over
this company. Did you ever think that the
Russians, Soviets, who at one time were a great
ally during 1945, then by 1947 in the Truman
Doctrine were our great nemesis, did you ever
think that that might have had some influence?
Yes, that certainly did, because I knew way back
during the war the Russians were not high. true
allies. They were, in fact, for a little bit of an
order from Eisenhower, we would have turned and
fought the Russians. The Germans would have
helped us. They said so. They surrendered to us.
And so that was in the back of my mind when we
organized the National Guard Company. The
Russians may want to try to do something now that
we're demobilizing, because they weren't
demobilizing. No, no, they weren't demobilizing
at all. We knew that. In fact, they were in
Czechoslovakia, in Poland. They were going to get
into Poland then. And so we knew they weren't
demobilizing. They were in Vienna. And so that,
when Simmons talked to me about it, that excited me
to just do something. Another aspect about the
National Guard and about the reserves in general
is is many times officers had to buy their own
uniforms. They had to buy their own equipment.
They didn't get paid. Tell me about how that worked
as far as, did you get paid? Tell me about how that
worked. I'm trying to remember if I really got paid
or not. It really didn't make any difference. Yes,
we did receive, we received, we drilled 48 drills,
but we only got paid for half, if I remember
correctly. for 24 drills. And then, of course, any
staff meetings or anything like that, and travel,
we did it ourselves. And went
to summer camp, of course, we got paid.
Is that the way it is today? Or do you get paid for
every drill? You get paid for every drill. And it's
an extra drill. If you have extra drills, you get
paid for it. Oh, sure. And they pick up your travel,
too, don't they? Pick up your travel. They'd pick
up, as a general officer, when I used to travel
around the country visiting the units, they paid
for that. They paid per diem, which was good. Now,
it's an odd thing. No, they didn't pay us the same
per diem. They paid the active Army people. It was a
little less. But I think now it's stabilized and
standard. They pay everybody the same. But in the
Guard days, we had to make ship. You know, if we
wanted to We needed stationery. We'd get our own
stationery and typewriter. We'd get our own
typewriter. Of course, the Guard didn't have
anything. They furnished the guns and ammunition
for rifle practice. And what kind of training did
you have? We had regular infantry training out at
the fire grounds.
Basically marching and drilling? The basic
training, yeah, the squad drills. It was basic
training because we really had recruits in our...
There were a few veterans, Bill Selvin,
Lieutenant Selvin, Lieutenant Engman. They were
all veterans, and they'd come out, they'd join.
It's a funny thing, Terry. At the time, we were
organized, and when I'd go around asking officers
to join, they were willing to join. I mean, I didn't
have much resistance as we do today, you know, You
talk to an officer who comes with a lack of duty and
tell him to get in reserve, and it doesn't excite
him at all until it's too late, like 20 years later.
They tell me, well, why didn't you make me get in the
reserve? I see them today, my age, you know. Well,
why didn't you make me stay in the reserve? Why
didn't you make me make my 20? But at that time, we
didn't have any problem getting officers to. And
we went to Fort Hood by train. We left here at
midnight and got in Fort Hood about 24 hours later.
It took us that long to go from Beaumont to Fort Hood
by train. And we used one of the baggage cars for our
mess haul. And so we cooked the meals on the train.
But we got to summer camp. It was good. We had
realistic training. Who trained you? We trained
ourselves. There wasn't any active army people
advising or anything. We just laid out our
training schedules and went to the field. But no
active army people in training. Was there a lot of
tension between the active and the reservists? At
that time? No, because they weren't really
involved with us as much as they are today. And I was
in the 36th division. General Ainsworth was
commanding general, Miller Ainsworth. My
regimental commander was General Ives. And we
trained well, very well. Because you know, we come
out of active army, combat. We trained like
combat. And we played like combat. You know, at
night, officers club time. Captain Wheeler was a
headquarter commandant, and he and I were good
friends at A&M. He was in combat and I was in combat.
By the way, what's his name, Artie Murphy? Yeah,
Artie Murphy, the most decorated, yeah. Yeah, he
was on our staff. Really? At 36th Division. And
Artie and I became very good friends because we
played ping pong at night. No kidding? That's
right. And M.B. Etheridge from Huntsville had
more decorations than Marty Murphy, except he
didn't get the Congressional Medal of Honor.
Marty Murphy and M.B. Ethers were both in the third
division. And M.B. is now chairman of the bank in
Huntsville. Oh, great guy, colorful, little
shark fellow. And he had, I had H company, he had C
company. Marty Murphy was on the staff, and at
night, So Audie Murphy stayed in the reserves?
Stayed in the reserves. I know then he went to
movies. Then he went to the movies. He stayed in
there two years. Went to Fort Hood one year and went
to Fort Polk the next year and then he went to the
movies. What kind of person was Audie Murphy? Very
quiet, nice, just pleasant as he can be. And we
played ping pong. We'd go to the officer's club and
they had this ping pong table so we'd play ping pong
and talk and visit. just ordinary, quiet, he was
more of an introvert than he was an extrovert. And
of course all the recruits when they, Artie,
that's what his job was to come out and recruit
training. Recruits would come out there and
they'd see Artie Murphy, boy they just, everybody
was thrilled that he would be there. And he did a
good job for the Texas National Guard.
It's sad, you know, he died. When did he die? I know
he made a couple of movies, and then what happened?
Do you remember? I don't. Did he become an
alcoholic? Yeah, he and his wife had problems, and
I think he crashed an airplane, no, an automobile
crashed. It's been so long, I just can't remember.
But he sure was a fine fellow.
Well, let's move to your reserve duties and start
tracing your reserve career. So from 1947 to 1956,
you were with the 143rd. Right. I got promoted to
major. Oh, so you moved up. I moved up as the
operation officer, S3. And I went to Houston for
drills in. The old light guard division, that's
what they called them, on the old Spanish Trail.
And that's right, I was there. Then politics got
involved. OK, tell me about that. Oh, yeah, they
began to play politics. Who was they? The action
general and division headquarters. They began to
move men around and put them in command position
who weren't really qualified. And
then they began to, when there was election coming
on, going to beat the drums for their candidate. So
it kind of disenchanted me with the guard, and I
said, no, I didn't want any part of that. So then
that's when I transferred over to the Army
Reserve. Now, before we do that, let's talk about
Korea. Why did you feel that you should have been
called up, or did you feel any, what did you think
about Korea? Well, we were alerted, but we were
never called up. I feel this way and feel strongly
about it. if you're in a reserve unit, you're a
trained person, and you should be called. Korea,
Vietnam, didn't make any difference. We ought to
have been called up to fight the war, because we
were better trained than the draftee that they
called us. That's just the point. That's the
reason for the reserves, I thought. Yeah, I agree.
And what bothers me, and it bothered me, even in the
Vietnam, it bothered me more in the Vietnam area,
because Here they would take a young man, no
training at all, and send him for six months, and on
the seventh month he was in combat. It's not fair.
It's not right. Here we in World War II called up, go
to basic training, go to advanced training, go to
an active Army unit, and train for a year as a unit
before they send you overseas. And here in Korea
and in Vietnam they'd take a kid, 17, 18, 19 years
old, six months, sent him to Fort Polk for six
months training, and then seventh month, eighth
month, he's in combat. Just not right. I don't
believe it. I would never, and that six months
training is good training. No question about it,
but not for combat. I think that's the fallacy of
the Vietnam conflict, that these poor kids over
there didn't know what to do, and they had leaders
who didn't know what to do. Of course, I read all of
this, you know. And then talk to these people who
come back. At the Command General Staff College,
when I'd go up there and visit with them, and I could
detect that some of the officers just didn't have
the leadership. And so I'm a strong believer
that... But you thought you should have gone in
Korea. I really do. I think the 36th Division
should have been called up and gone into Korea. Of
course, we had two years, almost three years of of
training. Now
tell me how and why you switched to the Army Reserve
and got out of the National Guard. And was this a big
problem? Bureaucratically speaking was it a real
pain to do that or was it an easy maneuver or how does
this work? Well it wasn't a big pain to move except
my superiors didn't want me to move. They wanted me
to stay in the Guard, and I didn't want to stay in the
Guard. Because of the politics? Because of the
politics of getting involved. Now, could you give
me a specific example of political pressure that
you felt?
I'm trying to remember who was the governor. They
were trying to tell us that they wanted a certain
man to, they wanted us to vote for him. And that kind
of, it was all right to say we, You know, if they
support a man, that's right, but not come around in
a military armory meeting and suggest that we vote
for this man. That wasn't as bad as it was when they
started moving men, moving officers above other
officers who weren't really qualified to be put in
those positions. That's what really made me want
to move out of the Guard. So you thought on a state
level it was just not as professional and more
politically, I wouldn't want to say corrupt, but
more politically influenced than on a federal
level with the Army Reserve. That's correct.
Would you agree with that? I'd agree with that.
There's politics in the Army Reserve, but not as
prevalent as it is in the Guard. Okay. Yeah. More so
in the officer corps. And the Guard is just riddled
with politics. And I just couldn't. You found that
distasteful. It was very distasteful. And it got
worse as I found out later. And so I thought my move
was just right. Moving from the Guard to the
Reserve. And then the Reserve began to be active.
They began to have more units. They began to have
more support. Before that time it was all a control
group type thing. And so then when they started
having units in that's when I decided to join them
and move. Okay now, was this 1956 then that you
moved? 54. 54. And what was my, what's the date on
there?
Well, you became the commander, 17th Artillery,
90th Infantry Division in 1956. Okay, in 54 I came
into that same unit. No, I came over as the
executive officer of a AAA battalion. Okay, so in
56 then you moved. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Moved in
54. I became a operation officer, S3. Wait a minute
Terry, let me get my, without my notes or anything.
I became the executive officer of an artillery
battalion here in Beaumont. That isn't on here.
It's not on there. No. No. At 4 1st Group, and I was
there a year, and then the 90th Division took it
over. I thought it was just a year, and I didn't...
We were at Fort Sale. General Kidwell came down and
told our battalion that the 90th Division was
going to take us in as their... Artillery
Battalion and it was going to be re-designated to
the AAA, AAA Battalion. And so then the battalion
commander then, John Stranahan, decided he
wanted to get out. So he got out and General Kidwell
asked me if I would command it. I was a major at the
time. Okay, so then you became the commander of the
17th Artillery. I became the commander of the 17th
Artillery.
And tell me, as far as that command was concerned,
how many men did you have? How much artillery did
you have? How much equipment? And the 7th is what is
really known as the 5th of the 17th Artillery. But
we call it the 17th Artillery. It's 17th Artillery
Regiment. It's an old line regiment, an old army.
We had a full complement of units, five units. We
have the headquarter company, A battery, B
battery, C battery, D battery. Full-firing
batteries and headquarter company. Head and
head. It was called head and head. And we had the
largest strength of the battalions in the 90th in
this area. We got up to about 410 or 15 people at one
time. It was. It was. It was a great side. And it was
over our maximum strength, what we did. Well, how
could you do that? Well, we took the strength from,
we took the quotas from the other battalions
throughout the division. The division
commander, General Rutter, told us that you just
recruit as much as you want and we'll just take the
spaces from the other units, which we did. And we,
this area, just boomed with reservists. had units
in Fort Arthur, Orange. Why do you think that is?
Why do you think so many people were attracted in
the mid-1950s to the reserves? We worked at it. We
worked at it. Promoted it. Promoted it.
Publicity-wise. Newspaper. Schools. Service
clubs. I'd go to service clubs and make speeches
all the time. Really? Oh, yeah. I was in the... I was
president of the Kiwanis Club, and I was governor
of Kiwanis, so I was very active in civic work. And
the Lions Club would call me and ask me to come make a
speech, and the Rotary would come and I'd go make a
speech. And so we really beat the drum for the Army
Reserve, and we got the people. Just people we knew
and we didn't know would come and join us. I had a
waiting list for the officers. Really? Waiting
list. Just any time an officer had to move out of the
unit or something, move out of the city, no problem
replacing him. Just a waiting list. And I had a
tremendous staff. Milton Bell, who eventually
became my executive officer, was an architect. He
owns his own firm now, A&M graduate. Jack B.
Alexander was the S3, Major Alexander. Became the
controller...
of Guff Oil Corporation in Pittsburgh. Tommy
LeBlanc was another one of my majors, and he now
owns Guff Coast Supply on IH-10 out here, a
multi-million dollar plant out there. They
forage Christmas trees and stuff for the oil
fields. Oh, I could just go on and on and tell you the
people who've done well in civilian life. And they
were all members of the unit. That's a very
interesting point. Do you think that there is some
correlation between officers and the local
reserve units in the country, we could just make a
general statement here, and successful
community leaders? I would say yes. You bet. This
is, at least it was in our area, where my brother
Jimmy was a colonel who retired as a colonel of the
reserve and was the mayor of Beaumont two terms.
And so he was in the reserve. Why do you think that
is? Well, I think it's the leadership that's in you
and you just excel in this type of thing. And it gets
back to that old A&M The training,
self-discipline. You know, you wanted to take
charge and do things. And we
had the, let's see, I'm trying to think of some
other, oh, well, the, well, another thing, the
sheriff of our county was a retired, he came out of
the army as a colonel, MP, and he, you know, people
supported the reserve. And so, It wasn't
something we were fighting. Everybody was trying
to help us. Okay, now everybody's trying to help
you. During the 1960s, of course, we had some
anti-war protests and anti-military feeling in
America after, by about 1970, when it appeared
that we weren't really winning in Vietnam,
although we had been told that it looked like the
White was at the end of the tunnel. Did you get any
anti-military or anti-reserve feeling during
those years? Not really, Terry. We didn't get any
anti-military
response from the people. The feedback wasn't
that way. Well, did you get any pro? We got, well,
what we did get, we got a lot of support and reserve.
Because a lot of people wanted to join. Join the
reserve, yeah. They didn't want to, you know, be
called up and go to Vietnam. So we had waiting lists
then because it was a different reason than it was
back when I had the artillery battalion. Yeah,
artillery battalion.
I think this is one of the things that helped me
along the way that I learned at A&M. Okay. Was to
select and... have around me people who were
quality type people, who were smart and
dedicated to help me do a job. I didn't select
people to be on the staff because they were my
friends. And I always guarded that. I helped my
friends, no question about it. I'm a loyal type
person. If you're my friend of mine, I'm very loyal
to you. And I'll stick with you. And I'll do
anything I can. But if you're a quality type friend
and smart, intelligent, and you've got a lot on the
ball, and you're my friend, I'm going to promote
you and take care of you because you're helping me.
Sure. Absolutely. And that was my, I guess it was my
secret of why I went along the route of coming to
general. I always surrounded myself with some
good staff people, like the ones I named you a while
ago. Bale, Alexander, Coffin, who owns all the
cleaners in Beaumont now. He was my University of
Texas graduate, I was telling you about. But he was
my S4, my supply man. He got the job done, and he did
it for me. He would tell me a lot of times, Colonel,
We're not doing this right, and we're going to get
in trouble. So I said, well, okay, Dick, what shall
we do? He said, well, I think we ought to do this,
this, this, this. All right.